Scott: Really technology
has opened up so many doors
over the last couple of decades
and has absolutely led
to more inclusiveness
for people who are
blind and hard of hearing
or who have a dual sensory loss.
(music plays)
Chris: We have four DeafBlind participants here
today, sitting in a circle.
Additionally, we have a tactile
sign language interpreter interpreting to Bapin.
We have visual ASL interpreters
sitting to the right
of Scott Davert.
Visual interpreters will sign
so that the tactile interpreter
can copy sign to Bapin. And Bryan
and I will access the interpreter visually
Not visible on camera is the ASL
to English interpreter
who will voice into spoken English,
what Bryan, Bapin, and I are signing.
The voice interpreter
is utilizing a neck loop mic
with Bluetooth capability
that will transmit the sound directly to Scott.
All four participants have access,
meaning as DeafBlind individuals,
we can participate
in the roundtable discussion.
[music plays]
Chris: Scott, would you like to start us off
by answering that question?
Scott: I don't actually know that there's
a single answer to that because there's a lot of overlap.
There are, adaptive, of course,
means that you're adapting things to
work for an individual
that's not using the only,
only the main features
built into something-
But it's also assistive in the sense
that it assists people
who are not necessarily able
to access features in certain devices
unless certain things are turned on.
So, for example, my iPhone,
I wouldn't call that necessarily
assistive technology,
but it has assistive technology
built into it.
Bapin: They are synonymous.
In fact, both mean technology
that gives us better access
to information
for anyone with any type of disability,
be that blind, deaf, or DeafBlind.
Bryan: My perspective on the words
is that they're similar,
but the word assistive seems to encompass
all people with disabilities,
whereas adaptive is specifically
to support people with low vision
or with vision loss
and those types of accommodations.
That's my perspective.
Chris: I appreciate your perspectives
on the use of the terms.
We may use these terms interchangeably
throughout this discussion today.
[music plays]
Bryan: Assistive technology
is a kind of tool or system
to give us access in our everyday lives
and our workplace to level the playing
field with our able-bodied peers.
It gives us more access.
It's really important,
most of us feel we need something,
but each of us might
need something different.
Assistive technology helps us function.
Bapin: This is technology that has benefits
for hearing-sighted people as well.
For example,
I use my laptop.
I can't access it
because I can't see or hear.
I need to use a braille display
and that looks like what I have with me
now, as you can see.
This one is smaller
as I use it with my iPhone,
but I have a larger braille display
that I use with my laptop.
I connect the devices,
but there is also a screen reader
which is the software that
essentially will relay the information
on the screen
to my braille display so I can read it.
So that is what I call necessary
adaptive technology.
Scott: Once I started losing more
of my hearing, I had to transition
to being a braille user,
which was kind of a struggle.
But I made it work and
like Bapin I have my braille
display paired to my iPhone
and also use a braille display
on my computer.
In addition to that, though,
I also use a lot of technology,
which helps me hear better.
If I go into a restaurant, for example,
and it's very loud, as they often are,
even these days,
it's very difficult for me to understand
what people are saying
that I'm in conversations with.
So the microphone that is in use right now
also get used in those environments
so that I can go out and have a conversation
with somebody in a loud environment.
And, you know, it connects me with people.
It makes me feel
more included in society
than just sitting home doing nothing.
And some of the great things
that come out of it
are things like something simple
such as text messages.
You know, it really helps
connect you to the world.
And also, if you want to access the phone
system, for example,
you could call a restaurant to order food
through a service called text relay.
You can also contact doctors
and things like that.
So really, technology has
opened up so many doors
over the last couple of decades
and has absolutely led
to more inclusiveness for people
who are blind and hard of hearing
or who have a dual sensory loss.
Chris: Take the regular camera on the iPhone,
a feature that is standard on all phones.
I will use that camera
if I can't see the print,
let's say at a grocery store.
Often the ingredients are printed
very small on the label.
I can use the camera app
to zoom in on the label and read the words
much more easily.
I know that some of you use
assistive technology for your personal use.
Are there ones you'd like
to mention that are available
that might benefit other DeafBlind people?
Bapin: I'm thinking about the word
assistive technology
and it can be low tech.
We're not always talking
about high tech devices.
It can mean very low tech things.
For example, I work with wood.
I often have to measure the wood.
I need something
one foot, three feet, etc.
I can't access print,
so I use a raille ruler
or tape measure.
I'd call that assistive technology.
It's a broad term to describe
anything that gives me access.
So it's important
to remember that when we're talking,
it's not always the high tech stuff
we're talking about.
[music ends]